SO THAT WAS A LOT OF INTRODUCTION TO REACT native and Expo but I find it important that you understand
what you're working with before you get started.
Now with that it's time to get started though and for this visit Expo dot I Oh there you can click on
get started and you'll find these starting steps here.
Now you don't really need that first step.
We can jump right into step number two which is that you need node J.S. now you need no s which is a
javascript runtime that allows you for example to build server side apps with JavaScript you don't need
that because we're about right and you know us code in this course.
It's not a node course.
No worries you don't need to know.
No chance but it's a package which allows us to run javascript on our machine and for example the expo
client behind the scenes also runs on javascript.
It's totally not related to react native.
That's just for this tool to work correctly.
Also for this command to install the tool NPM that's the node package manager.
And that's also made available by no charge us.
So the first step is that you wizard no chase dot org and there download the latest version.
In my case 12 dots six from there to get started and whatever your latest version is when you're viewing
that simply download that version install it.
It gives you a normal install or you can simply walk through by clicking through all these steps there.
Nothing too fancy.
It's a way lable for Mac OS and Windows and Linux.
So simply downloaded here walk for the installer and once it is installed you can proceed to this third
step here.
So with no chase installed let's copy that command here and then open your normal terminal or on Windows
your command prompt and paste that command in here.
Now on Mac and Linux you might need to add a pseudo in front of this on Windows.
This will not be required to get the right permissions.
So here I'll enter it.
Then you might be prompted for your password simply enter it if you are.
And now it is will install the exposed CLIA which is this tool that helps us create and manage react
native projects with the help of Expo globally on your machine so that you can use it from anywhere
on your machine.
So from anywhere in your terminal.
So let's wait for this installation to finish.
You can ignore any warnings you might be getting in between and I'll be back once this installation
finished.
You can also ignore such in-between arrows here by the way as long as the overall doesn't crash with
an error but finishes with a message like this one in the end.
You were successful.
So with us we got exposed steel I installed the next step is to create our project so step number four
here.
We do this by running expo in it.
And then any project name of your choice and for that first of all make sure that you use the C D command
to navigate into the folder here on your machine where you want to create that project so I did that.
Here I I'm in that folder and now I can run expo in it and I'll name this r n first app because it's
our first react native app here after all simply hit enter that name of course is totally up to you
what you have here.
And this will now create a new folder in the place where you ran this command and set up our ReACT native
app they're using Expo.
Now you probably are asked which template you want to use.
And there you can go with the blank template for now.
Make sure you don't use bare minimum because that would be a setup without the expo environment with
all the convenience features.
So definitely go with Lang here.
Now next you'll probably be asked to enter a name for your app and I'll just enter our end first app
here.
That's the and the name which is displayed in the tasks which are off your app on the home screen and
so on.
You can leave to slag as it is and simply hit enter again.
Now I'm also you using yarn on my machine which is an alternative to NPM you might not be asked whether
you want to use yarn which is totally fine.
I will also choose no here to use NPM.
And therefore now it is will go ahead create this project folder install all required dependencies and
there like react and react native and give us a HREOC native project which we can use to build a native
app.
So let's wait for this to finish now.
Now once it did finish you see the next instructions here you can navigate into the newly created folder
with the CDE command and then in there is simply run NPM start NPM start will now start up the expo
development tool the expo dev tools and a new tab should open up in your browser.
Here is that tab which did open you are any issues here you can ignore it for now.
This year is the expo development tool or the expo dev tools as it's called.
It's a window which allows you to run your app on different connected devices or add simulators.
And it allows you to generally manage parts of your app you see some output from your app.
Here are some warnings you might be getting.
And this is a very convenient window for managing your app and for running your app now.
Also make sure that here in the terminal where you ran NPM start you'll leave that process running.
You might see that it didn't finish you don't see that input line again where you can enter commands
instead here you can't type or you can press some of the shortcuts you see here but you can't type new
commands.
You can always quit this process by hitting control and see simultaneously but you should leave this
process up and running for as long as you're working on your project.
And if you are then done for today you can quit it and restarted on the next day because this process
will all watch your code and whenever you change something in your code and you save that change it
will automatically safeties and publish it to your connected device.
But speaking of that let's connect the device and for that the easiest way of getting started is to
use your iPhone or Android phone which you own.
So in my case it's an iPhone here and here's my real phone and I'm in the App Store now it's in German
because I have a German phone but this is the normal App Store now in there you can go to the search
area and search for Expo when you did that you should find that Expo client here and you can simply
download that to your device it's free to use simply install it onto your device and wait for this installation
to finish of course.
And once this is finished.
You can open this and now with the expo app installed you don't need to sign up here.
Instead on Android you should be able to scan that barcode right from inside your expo app on I was
simply open up the camera app and then you can go all the way to the dev tools here and you'll see that
barcode here simply hold your camera onto debt on ISIS or the expo app scanner here on Android and you
should be prompted whether you want to open an app in Expo and simply hit open there.
And now this should open your app here in the Expo client which you installed.
Again without signing up just by holding arrive on camera over that barcode or on Android by doing that
from directly inside the expo app where you will have that option to do so.
So now it is will built a javascript bundle as you see here at the bottom or put in other words.
This will now take your app and compile it basically and prepare it and then load it here over exposed
servers into your app and you can simply have got it here on the first screen and then DS your starting
react native app.
And now let's actually view the code for this and see how we can change something into code to see something
different here on this screen.